# Open-Source-Essay
[Scott Chomicki](https://www.linkedin.com/in/schomicki/)
## Revolution OS Essay
### Bill Gates and An Open Letter To Hobbyists:

  I find Bill Gates' combanant behavior to the open source movement very interesting. Before Bill Gates and Microsoft started to develop the proprietary software model, software was shared and passed around freely from computer user to computer user. Source code was a common thing that was shared between people and it could be editted freely. Sadly, this free passing of software did not last very long. At the beginning of 1976, Bill Gate's had a different idea. He wrote a letter to a club called the Homebrew Computer Club, a club made up of hackers, the letter was later published in the January 31st edition of the club newsletter. His letter outlined his grand new idea of proprietary software. Unfortunately, Bill Gates' greed overcame him and the letter was written in a condescending fashion. His so called "Open Letter to Hobbyists" letter also outlines his frustrations with the open source and passing around of software culture. His main motivator of frustration reads:
  > *"The feedback we have gotten from the hundreds of people who say they are using BASIC has all been positive. Two surprising things are apparent, however. 1) Most of these "users" never bought BASIC (Less than 10% of all Altair owners have bought BASIC), and 2) The amount of royalties we have recieved from sales to hobbyists makes the time spent of Altair BASIC worth less than $2 an hour."*
  >
In this excerpt from Bill Gates' letter we can clearly see where his anger is coming from. He is getting all of this positive feedback from user's, but the revenues and licenses are not matching up. Just from reading this quote we can see Bill's negative diction and condescending writing, what exemplified this was his use of the word "hobbyists" whilst explaining the sales they have recieved. By using "hobbyists" he is directly mocking the name and integrity of the club.
Bill later goes on to explain his anger in even more detal by stating:
> "Why is this? As the majority of hobbyists must be aware, most of you steal your software. Hardware must be paid for, but software is something to share. Who cares if the people who worked on it get paid?"
> 
This is an understandable argument he is making, but he is approaching the problem in an angry manner. His next arguement is the ethics behind the fairness of the situation, and explaining that sharing software is a type of getting back at them for a problem someone may have had. He also tries to justify his arguement by saying he is not only doing this for profit, but that it is only so the company can break even. Another part that sticks out to me is his arrogance when he talks about how Microsoft was really the only groups who has invested a lot of money in hobby software. His main point here is "Most directly, the thing you do is theft". Bill is extremely outspoken about resellers of Altair Basic aswell, saying that people who resell their own versions of BASIC should be punished because they are making money off it when Microsoft is not. He concludes his letter with:
> They are the ones who give hobbyists a bad name, and should be kicked out of any club meeting they show up at (reffering to resellers of appended software). I would appreciate letters from any one who wants to pay up, or has a suggestion or comment. Nothing would please me more than being able to hire ten programmers and deluge the hobby market with good software. 
>
The most aggravating part to many hobbyists was Bill Gates' high horse that he was condescendingly speaking from. Basically demeaning the club and bashing hobbyists as a whole. Also the fact that he tried to tell the Homebrew Computer Club to ban certain resellers from their meeting like he was the head of the club rubbed people the wrong way. I chose to write about this topic because I find Bill Gates' attitude and soapbox he stands on appauling. He acts almost like a child who doesnt get his way.
